	California State University, East BayUniversity Thesis Writing Guide
Dear Master’s Candidate:You are about to embark on one of the most important aspects of a master’s degree, the preparation of a master’s thesis. The thesis will provide you with an opportunity to demonstrate the ideas, re- search skills, and creative abilities you have gained during your graduate work.As with your previous master’s coursework, the first place to begin this new endeavor is with your department. The most important person in your department at this time will be your thesis advisor. You should select an advisor who is a good match with your research interests and with whom you have a good academic and working relationship. The selection and definition of a research topic and methodology is a key element for completing a successful thesis. Your thesis advisor is the person who will help you do this and who will guide you through the content and research requirements of the thesis.The Office of Academic Programs and Graduate Studies will assist you with the style and format ofyour thesis. This University Thesis Writing Guide presents the requirements to follow when you write your thesis. Reading and following these guidelines will help you to prepare a thesis that will be inconformance with university standards and thus acceptable for format and style. Questions of content and academic quality are determined by the thesis advisor in your department.After you have read the University Thesis Writing Guide, please call the Office of Academic Programs and Graduate Studies at (510) 885-3716 if you have any questions concerning style and format not covered in these pages. I encourage you to clear up these questions before the preparation of yourfinal draft.Congratulations on your graduate work to date and best wishes on your University Thesis. Sincerely,Susan B. OppAssociate Vice PresidentAcademic Programs and Graduate Studies

A University Thesis is a formalpresentation of an objective, critical investigation, and is to be written in a formal, scholarly manner in standard English. It is important that style, usage, and punctuation be consistent. If you plan to com- plete a University Thesis, you must contact your department for assis- tance with developing a thesis com- mittee and enrolling in the Univer- sity Thesis course: 6910.Your thesis work will be supervised by a thesis committee. It is im-portant to contact your department for guidelines on forming a thesiscommittee. Guidelines vary depart- ment-by-department. The chair of your committee must be a Cal State East Bay faculty member.The quality of both the presentation and content of the finished Univer- sity Thesis is a major consideration in its acceptance. A University The- sis must demonstrate originality, appropriate organization, clearpurpose, critical analysis, inde- pendent thinking, and accurate and complete documentation. Descrip- tion, cataloging, compilation, orother simple procedures are not adequate.This University Thesis Writing Guide includes changes in proce- dures and format requirements. Students and faculty advisors should refer to these guidelines, rather than previously completed theses.Consult with a graduate advisor about your graduate program and the possibility of including a Uni- versity Thesis. Procedures for cre-ating a thesis committee and thesis
topic guidelines will vary from de- partment to department. Once you have an advisor and committee, enroll in your department’s 6910 (University Thesis) course.Get IRB approval if needed: Ap- proval of research protocol by the Institutional Review Board (IRB) is mandatory if research with human subjects is involved. This review is necessary to determine whether human subjects will be at risk and to protect their rights and welfare.Any research involving experi- ments, questionnaires, surveys,interviews, and similar methodolo- gy involves research with human subjects. Theses in the social and behavioral sciences, education, health fields and management/ administration will probably re-quire this review.IRB approval must be obtained before research commences. Stu- dents should contact the IRB Coor- dinator early in their thesis plan- ning process and should submit their completed application(protocol) to the IRB at least two months before they plan to begin their research. Further information is available on the Office of Re- search and Sponsored Programs website at: www.csueastbay.edu/ orsp/ (Click on the "Institutional Review Board" link.) If you havequestions not answered on their web pages, you may call the Office of Research and Sponsored Pro- grams (LI 2310) at: 510-885-4212.Draft and revise the thesis: Work closely with your thesis committee chair to review your progress and revise as directed until your com-
mittee judges your thesis to be ac- ceptable and complete. It is strong- ly recommended that you prepare your drafts according to the format requirements in this guide in order to avoid reformatting prior to sub- mitting multiple copies for binding.NOTE: Faculty members are not expected to take time to make ex- tensive corrections or revisions. They are encouraged, instead, to return draft materials to the stu-dent with general instructions and suggestions for bringing the thesis up to required departmental and university standards.Prepare your final manuscript for binding according to the re-quirements in this guide. Be sure to include all mandatory elements and format the manuscript accordingly.Pay special attention to the"General Format Requirements" and the "Specific Format Require- ments" sections of this guide.Pass format review: Submit the entire, final manuscript to the Aca- demic Programs and Graduate Stud- ies Student Services office (SA 4500) for format review by the"format review" deadline. The copy you submit for format review must be your final and approved thesis-- your committee members have approved the text of your thesis and require no further changes--andsuccessfully defended if a thesis defense is required by your depart- ment or committee. Your defense must be successfully completed before you submit your final and approved thesis for format review. Your thesis should be complete ex- cept for the signatures of your

committee members on the approval page.   * It is important that your approval page layout be re- viewed and accepted by theThesis Editor in Academic Pro- grams and Graduate Studies be- fore you ask your committee members to sign the page.Be sure to complete the “Thesis Submission Information Form” and include it with your thesis whenyou submit it for review.NOTE: The Academic Programs and Graduate Studies office does notreview Departmental Theses.Obtain committee signatures: After the Thesis Editor in Academic Programs and Graduate Studiescompletes the format review ofyour thesis, obtain approval signa- tures from your University Thesis committee. [Please note that you must now type each committee member’s name under each cor- responding signature line.] Anoral defense is normally required prior to committee approval. Check with your department.If the chair of your University The- sis committee will be away fromcampus during the final quarter, you are responsible for making alternative arrangements for final approval.Submit photocopies (or original print-outs) of your thesis for bind- ing to the Academic Programs and Graduate Studies office (SA 4500).Number of Copies. Plan to provide the following number of copies to be bound:  * One for the University Library.* Another for the department.
  * Exceptions: Marine Science and Teacher Education require twocopies. Verify this with your Thesis Chair.Additional bound copies can be ordered for personal use. If youwant copies for yourself, include the quantity in your order.A Note about Collating. For eachcopy of your thesis that you submit for binding, it is your responsibility to assemble the pages in the proper order. Please put a sheet of colored paper between each copy. Neither the copy center, the Thesis Editor, nor the bindery takes responsibility for this collating.Pay for binding: Binding is done by Valley Library Binding in Fresno,CA. The theses are hard-bound in red cloth and stamped in gold with title and author's name on the front and the spine. The bindery limitscover and spine titles to a total of 85 letters/spaces.There is a separate handout titled "Thesis Binding Charges" which is provided during the format review with the Thesis Editor from theAcademic Programs and Graduate Studies office (SA 4500).Payment.Make check cashier’s check or mon- ey order payable to Valley Library Bindery and present it to the Aca- demic Programs and Graduate Stud- ies office along with the multiplecopies. Lack of sufficient funds to cover a check will result in a $5.00 assessment and an encumbrance; graduation will be delayed.After payment is made, the Academ- ic Programs and Graduate Studiesoffice will notify the graduation evaluators in Planning and Enroll-ment Management that your thesis has been accepted.Pick up personal copies of the bound thesis. About three to four
weeks into the following quarter, the bindery will deliver the bound copies of the theses and/or disser- tations to the Academic Programs and Graduate Studies office (SA 4500). Academic Programs andGraduate Studies will then send one copy of your thesis to the Universi- ty Library and send the rest of your copies to your department. Your department will notify you byphone or e-mail to pick up your personal copies.  * It is your responsibility to pick up (or arrange for pick up of) your personal copies. The university can not mail or other- wise transmit the personal cop- ies.BEFORE THE RELEASE of any cop- ies, you must insert maps, illustra- tions, etc. (if any) and must pay any additional binding fees.

1. Word-processing Programs Most students prepare their theses using a word-processing program on a personal computer. Profes-sional quality, up-to-date software is recommended. Some suggested programs:IBM (PC) Windows• MS Word• WordPerfect• MS WorksMacintosh• MS Word• WordPerfect• AppleWorks• FrameMaker2. Grammar and Standard Usage As a reference for general rules of American usage for such things as sentence structure, word form,pronoun usage, grammatical con- sistency and punctuation, students should refer to a grammar hand-book such as The Bedford Handbook for Writers by Diana Hacker, the Keys for Writers by Ann Raimes, or the Prentice Hall Reference Guide to Grammar and Usage by Muriel Har- ris. These guides are currently rec- ommended by the writing skills staff of our English Department.3. Professional Stylebook Guide- linesIn general, students should follow the stylebook for their field.NOTE: For your thesis, all specific guidelines (such as those per- taining to margins,font style, block quotes, bibliog- raphy) described in this thesis guide take precedenceover the professional stylebook.If the University Thesis WritingGuide seems to be in conflict with your professional style guide,choose to follow the thesis guide. If
you have questions about this, call the Academic Programs and Gradu- ate Studies office at (510) 885-3716.The following professional style- books and guidelines used by the graduate departments of this uni- versity are listed below (use the most recent edition): • Anthropology: "Style Guide and Information for Authors," American Anthropologist • Departments of the College of Business and Economics: A Manual for Writers of Term Papers, Theses, and Dissertations, by Kate L. Tura- bian, University of Chicago Press • Educational Psychology: Publica- tion Manual of the American Psy-chological Association, rev. by APA, Inc., Washington, D.C. • English: The MLA Style Sheet, MLA, New York • Geography: Editorial Policy Statement, rep. from Annual of the Association of American Geogra- pher vol. 60, no. 1, March 1970 • History: A Manual for Writers of Term Papers, Theses, and Disserta- tions, by Kate L. Turabian, Universi- ty of Chicago Press4. Paper StockPaper must be 8 1/2" x 11", white, and of such quality as to ensurereproduction of perfect copies. (Onion-skin or textured papers are unacceptable.) 20-24 lb. white or bright white paper (as found atprofessional copy centers) is ac-ceptable. (You may use 28 lb. paper if you have colored illustrations.) Type or print on only the right fac- ing side of each sheet.

5. Type, Fonts, Point Size, Styles A University Thesis should have a clean and simple look, without or- namentation or unnecessary com- plexity. Font, point size, and type style (use of boldface, italics, and underlining) must be consistent throughout the thesis. Changes infont or point size are not permitted.The following fonts/point sizes (and their corresponding italic and bold typefaces) are approved for theses. If you wish to use anotherfont, contact the Thesis Editor in the Office of Graduate Programs for approval.ExceptionsA smaller point size may be used for footnotes, graphs, tables or fig-ures. See No. 10, "Footnote Require- ments," and No. 13, "Requirements for Charts, Figures, Graphs, Tables, etc." Appendices may also includeoriginal items in different fonts or point sizes. See the "Appendices" section under Specific Format Re- quirements.6. Spacing, Margins, Indention, and Alignment of TextSpacing• Double-space the text. See sec-tions on "Quotations," "Footnotes," and "Appendices" for exceptions.• Leave one space after each word, comma, colon, and semicolon.Leave one or two spaces after peri- ods, question marks, and exclama- tion points. Either is acceptable, as long as the spacing is consistently the same throughout the document.• To form a dash, use your pro- gram’s command for a dash if it has one; otherwise, type two hyphens with no added space between. Do
not add a space to either side of a dash.Margins• All pages of your thesis must have the same margins. This in- cludes Table of Contents, Acknowl- edgments, Lists of Figures/Tables,all figures, illustrations, appendices and bibliography.• The left margin must be at least 1 1/2" to allow for binding area.• The right margin must be at least 1".• The top and bottom marginsmust be at least 1 1/4".Page numbers may be placed out- side these margins. See "Pagination Requirements."IndentingIndent paragraphs five to eight spaces. Do not add extra spaces between paragraphs within sec- tions of text. Also, see the section on "Quotation Requirements" for indent requirements.Alignment of Text Requirements All text must be left aligned (jagged right edge). Centered or justified(even right edge) alignment is not allowed. (Word-processing pro- grams are unable to produce justi- fied text without leaving unsightly gaps in the text.)7. Pagination RequirementsEach page in the thesis (except the title page) should have a page num- ber.Type of Numbering• Roman Numerals: Use lower case Roman numerals for the prelimi- nary pages, beginning with "ii" for the page following the Title Page.• Arabic Numbers: Use Arabic num- bers for the balance of the thesis,beginning with number "1" for the first page of text. From here on, the entire thesis should be numbered consecutively. This includes maps,
figures, illustrations, bibliography and appendices.FontUse the same font, point size and style (no italic or bold) for page numbers (Roman and Arabic) as you use for the text of your thesis.Adjust the default setting for page numbers in your word-processing program to match the font andpoint size you have chosen for your thesis.Placement of Number on the Page• Roman Numerals: For the pre-liminary pages which require lower case Roman numerals ( I, ii, iii, iv, etc.) centered at the bottom of the page.• Arabic Numbers: For the other pages, beginning with the firstchapter of the text, the page num- ber should be placed in the upperright-hand corner approximately 1/2" to 1" from the top of the page and 1" from the right margin. Use the number only. Do not add a header or ornamentation(parentheses, dashes, etc.).The default position in most word- processing programs for centered and upper right-hand page num- bers is usually acceptable. The page number should be at least 1/2"from the body of the text.Tip: If your word-processor does not have the ability to number pag- es in one file in two different places (e.g., the upper-right corner and at the bottom/center of the page), you could cut and paste the pages re-quiring Roman numerals into a separate file, then number these pages.8. Subhead RequirementsIn general, you should follow therecommended format for subhead sequencing in the stylebook you are using. We recommend, however, that you put three or four blank

lines before subheads and two blank lines after subheads.Subheads that are centered carry more weight than subheads that are flush left. You may use a combina-tion of all caps, bold, italic or under- lining to distinguish between differ- ent weights of subheads. Whatever format you choose for subheads,check to be sure that all sub- heads of the same weight are formatted in the same way.9. Quotation RequirementsFor all quotations, use the same font and point size for the quotation as used in the main body of your the- sis.Block QuotationsBlock quotation format is normally used for quotations of four or more lines of text within a single quote.Format extended quotations as block quotations. Single-space the block quotation and double-spacebetween quotation paragraphs. Also double-space between the quota-tion and the main body of the text.Indent a block quotation five toeight spaces from the left and right margins. (Center the quotation be- tween the margins.) If you wish,you may also indent the beginning of a paragraph in a block quotation another five spaces.10. Footnote RequirementsFootnotes are usually at the bottom of the page for the citations madeon that page, although some depart- ments require that the "notes" becollected at the end of each chapter or at the end of the text before the bibliography as endnotes. Follow the directions of your department for content, format, and placement of footnotes/endnotes.Footnotes or endnotes appearing within, or at the end of a chapter should be numbered beginning with number 1 for each chapter. If end- notes are placed at the end of the thesis before the bibliography, in-
clude the chapter headings on your endnotes pages followed by the notes pertaining to that chapter.This allows readers to easily find the notes pertaining to a particular chapter.Requirements for Footnotes at the Bottom of the PageUse the footnoting style of your word-processing program as long as the program provides a line sep- arating the footnote from the text and left justifies the footnote. Anyvariation from this standard format requires approval from the Office of Academic Programs and Graduate Studies.Single-space each footnote and dou- ble-space between footnotes. There should be at least 1/4" between the last line of the text and the line sep- arating the footnote (1/2" is pre- ferred). The lines separating thefootnotes should all be the same length (1 1/2" to 2" is recommend- ed).As a general rule, use the same font and point size as the main body of your thesis. If, however, you have extensive footnotes, you may re- duce the footnote point size to 9 or 10 points. Whatever point size you select, use it for all the footnotes of your thesis.11. ProofreadingThe University Thesis should becarefully proofread by the student and the student’s committee BE- FORE it is submitted to the Academ- ic Programs and Graduate Studies Student Services office for formatreview.Check the following items:• All text references to be sure they are correct and complete in thefootnotes/endnotes and bibliog- raphy.• All chapter headings and sub- headings, as well as figure and table headings to be sure they are for-
matted in the same way throughout your thesis. • The headings in your Table of Contents and Lists of Tables/Figures to be sure they correspond to the headings as they appear in the body of the thesis. • Page breaks to be sure pages do not begin with the last line of a par- agraph from the preceding page or end with the first line of a para- graph.12. Requirements for Special FormatsUniversity Theses of unusual size or shape, or those which include spe-cial information (for example, tape recordings, musical scores, lengthy music manuscripts) must have for- mat approval from the Academic Programs and Graduate Studiesoffice. Large maps (pre-folded by the student) or CD's can be inserted in sturdy pockets built by the bind- ery inside the back cover.One complete set of folded material must go to the bindery with the multiple copies so that they canbuild a pocket of the correct size.13. Requirements for Charts, Fig- ures, Graphs, Tables, etc.The rule for charts, figures, graphs, tables, etc. is that they must be con- sistent with each other in style and have the same general look. All photocopies and digital images must be clean and sharp. They should use the same font and point size as the text of the thesis if possi- ble.ExceptionsIf it is not possible to use the same font and point size as the text of the thesis (i.e., there is not enoughroom, or the item has been generat- ed on another computer which does not have the same fonts), it is allow- able to use a different font or a smaller/larger point size, as long as all the charts, figures, graphs, tables, etc. in the thesis use the same varia-

tions consistently. For example, if a thesis has five maps with legends, the type sizes of the legends should match each other.Charts, figures, graphs, tables may also be placed vertically on the page if they will not fit horizontally. The page, however, should have the same margins as the rest of the thesis. If possible, (1) place the top or heading at the left margin with the bottom of the item at the right margin, and (2) place the page number so that it appears in the same place and with the same ori- entation as on all the other pages of your bound thesis.Hand-written symbols and hand- drawn table or graph lines must be made with black, permanent ink (not with ball-point or water solu- ble felt tip pen).Hand-color work on maps/graphs must be done in permanent ink; do not use crayon, colored pencil, or felt tip pen. Each book must contain a complete set of any color illustra- tions.14. Requirements for Plates and PhotosIf your thesis includes photos or plates, one complete set of plates/ photographs must be submitted to the office with the original, depart- mentally approved copy of the Uni- versity Thesis by the thesis format review deadline. You may chooseone of the two following options:Option 1Include clear black and white orcolor digital images or photocopies of the photos, on the same thick- ness/type of paper as the rest of the thesis in each copy of the thesis submitted for binding.Option 2After the thesis has been bound, mount actual prints onto a cap-tioned page in each bound copy. To add photographic prints, the bind- ery requests that plates and photo-
graphs be mounted AFTER the the- sis is bound, to avoid bucklingcaused by uneven page thickness.If you choose this option, insert a captioned (but otherwise blank) page in the appropriate place(s) ineach copy of your thesis you submit for binding. You may contact the Valley Library Binding at 559-237- 5224 for specific instructions re- garding the use of stubbing sheets.When the bound copies are re-turned by the bindery, you will tear away the main portion of the perfo- rated stubbing sheet (leaving only the left edge in the spine to provide for the thickness of the plate/photograph) and will then mount the photo on the captioned sheet. It is suggested that you use an adhe- sive spray to mount your photos such as "Photo-Mount" manufac- tured by 3-M and available at Office-Max. Using tape to attach the pho- to or plate to the page is not ac-ceptable15. Printer SpecificationsONLY the following types of print- ers are approved for theses (use "best quality" mode for your final draft).• Laser printers (preferred)• Ink Jet printers• Letter Quality dot matrixUnacceptable Printers• Line printers• Dot matrix printers (not letter quality)• Any printer with visible and/or unconnected dots forming a letter

                                    i. Title PageThe title page is mandatory and must be prepared according to the template at the end of this writing guide. Use the template attached as a printed guide to placement ofeach element on the page. Insert the same number of blank lines asindicated on the template. Text and decorative lines must be centered between the top, bottom and left and right margins. (Top and bottom margins must be at least 1 1/4".Left margin must be 1 1/2" and right margin must be 1".) Holdyour typed title page along with the printed template up to the light to align all text. Make adjust- ments as necessary.Notes:    o The title of your thesis and/or dissertation must not exceed 85 spaces (including thespaces between words and punctu- ation). Your title should be in allcapital letters.    o Decorative lines must be 1 1/2" long. (Theses only)o Check the University Cataloglist of "Graduate Degrees" for the official name of your degree (i.e., "M.S. in Biological Science," rather than "M.S. in Biology"). Do not use the name of the degree Option.    o The date on the title page should be the month and year the degree will be awarded (the last month of the quarter you are grad-uating). For example, summer quar- ter 2011 ends September 3, so your thesis should be dated "September 2011".    o The title page is counted as page "i" but do not type this num- ber on the page.o Alignment of the elements
on your title page will vary depend- ing upon the font, word-processing program and printer you are using. For this reason, if you copy and paste the online title page template into a word-processing program, the results may not match the tem- plate.ii. Copyright PageThe inclusion of a copyright page is optional, but highly recommended. The U.S. Copyright Office has infor- mation for completing the copy-right process at http:// www.copyright.gov/register/ literary.html. An additionalhandout is available from the Aca- demic Programs and Graduate Studies office. To format your copy- right page, choose one of the twofollowing options. In the middle of the blank copyright page center (vertically and horizontally) your name and the year of the publica- tion as follows:Option 1John Doe © 2006Option 2Copyright © 2006 by John DoeIf you do not have a font that in- cludes the copyright symbol, e.g.,"Symbol" font, you should type the "c" and draw a circle around it in permanent black ink.If included, this page is numbered with a lower case Roman numeral "ii" centered between the margins at the bottom of the page.iii. AbstractInclusion of an abstract is optional. An abstract is a definitive statement of the problem, a brief descriptionof research method and major find- ings, and conclusions. It is limited to one or two pages. Check withyour department and/or Thesis

Committee Chair to determine whether your thesis should have an abstract.If included, double-space the text and use the same margins as the body of your thesis. These pages must be numbered with lower case Roman numerals, centered be- tween the margins at the bottom of the page.iv. Approval (Signature) Page The approval page is mandatory and must be prepared according to the template at the end of this writ- ing guide.Use the template attached as aprinted guide to placement of each element on the page. Insert the same number of blank lines as indi- cated on the template. Left margin must be 1 1/2" and right margin must be 1". Hold your typed ap- proval page along with the print- ed template up to the light to align all text. Make adjustments as necessary.For Theses: The signature lines must be 2 1/2" in length and the date lines 2" in length as on the template.For Dissertations: The signature lines must be 4" in lengthAlso, the name of each committee member must be typed immediate- ly beneath his or her respectivesignature line. As with your title page, the alignment of the elements on your approval page will vary depending upon the font, word-processing program and printer you are using.This page must be numbered with a lower case Roman numeral, cen- tered between the margins at the bottom of the page.v. PrefaceInclusion of a preface is optional. In general, a preface is written to ex- plain the motivation for making the study, the background for the pro- ject, scope of the research, and pur-
pose of the paper.The preface should be double- spaced and have the same margins as the body of your thesis. It may also include some acknowledg- ments if the "Acknowledgments"section has been omitted. If includ- ed, this page must be numbered with a lower case Roman numeral centered between the margins at the bottom of the page.vi. AcknowledgmentsAcknowledgments are not re-quired, but a brief statement may be included to thank mentors, col- leagues, individuals or institutions that supported research, or to give credit to works cited in the text for which permission to reproduce has been granted. Students are cau-tioned to prevent their statement from being overly long or personal in nature. An appropriate acknowl-edgment includes thanking an insti- tution which sponsored an intern- ship.The acknowledgments should be double-spaced and have the same margins as the body of your thesis. If included, this page must be num- bered with a lower case Roman numeral centered between the margins at the bottom of the page.vii. Table of ContentsThe table of contents is mandatory and should have the same margins as the body of your thesis. Center the title "Table of Contents" at the top of the page and list all parts of the thesis except the blank pages, title page, and approval page. For the remainder of the table, follow the requirements of the stylebook of your professional field.Note: You should double-space between all the major section head- ings (i.e., Lists of Tables, Chapters, Bibliography, etc.). You may, single-space between subheads that are listed under the main headings. All columns must align neatly—ragged columns are not acceptable.
Sample Format:* Note: The column of page numbers is right-aligned. Page is not included.The table of contents must be num- bered with a lower case Roman numeral centered between the mar- gins at the bottom of the page(s).viii. Lists of Figures, Graphs, Pho- tos, Plates, Maps or TablesIf your thesis includes figures, graphs, photos, plates, maps or ta-bles, you must include these lists. Do not include any items that you have placed in an appendix in your Lists of Figures, Graphs, Photos, Plates, Maps or Tables. Place each list on a separate page and use the same margins as the body of your thesis. Center the title (i.e., "List of Tables" or "List of Figures") at the top of the page and list tables or figures with page numbers in aligned columns. In general, follow the requirements of the stylebook for your profes-sional field.You may choose to use the same format as the "Table of Contents"sample in the previous section. You should, however, double-space be- tween each item—i.e., figure or table heading. (You may single- space between the lines of the head- ing.) Note: columns must alignneatly—ragged columns are not acceptable.These lists must be numbered with

a lower case Roman numeral cen- tered between the margins at the bottom of the page(s).ix. TextThe main body of the thesis is usu- ally separated into well-defineddivisions, such as chapters, and may begin with a brief chapter enti- tled "Introduction," or simply start with Chapter One. Follow the re-quirements of the stylebook foryour professional field. Note: text must be double-spaced and printed on one side of the paper only.Begin numbering with Arabic nu- merals (starting with page 1) at the upper right corner of the page and continue numbering each page to the end of the thesis. See # 7, "Pagination Requirements" under General Format Requirements.x. EndnotesInclude this section only if notes were not in the text or at the end of chapters. Also see # 10, "Footnote Requirements" under General For- mat Requirements for additionalinformation on endnotes. Center the title "Notes" or "Endnotes" at the top of the page. In general, fol- low the requirements of the style- book for your professional field. Text within individual citations/ notes should be single-spaced, with double-spacing between each cita- tion/note. Students should refer to the stylebook of their profession for specifics. Endnotes must use the same font, font size and margins as the text of the thesis.xi. BibliographyThis section may be mandatory, depending upon requirements of the stylebook for your professional field. Center the title"Bibliography," "References," or “Works cited” at the top of the page and format the bibliography ac-cordingly. Text within individual citations should be single- spaced, but double-space be- tween each citation/note. Stu-dents should refer to the stylebook
of their profession for specifics. The bibliography must use the samefont and font size as the text of the thesis.xii. Appendix/Appendices Inclusion of appendices is optional. Items properly relegated to an ap- pendix are explanations and elabo- rations not essential to the work of the thesis, but helpful to a reader seeking further clarification. Some examples might include: texts ofdocuments or laws, long lists, ques- tionnaires and sometimes evencharts or tables. If charts or tables are placed in an appendix, they would not be included in your List of Tables or List of Figures at the beginning of your thesis.Do not place figures, tables,charts, graphs, photos or other work that is needed and directly supports the work of your thesis in an appendix.Materials of separate categories should be placed in separate ap- pendices. If there is more than one appendix, each should be given a number or letter: Appendix 1, Ap- pendix 2, etc., or Appendix A, Ap- pendix B, etc. Center the title of each appendix at the top of the page. Another option is to center the title on a separate sheet (in the middle of the page or at the top)immediately preceding the appen- dix.Items placed in an appendix should be named and numbered separate- ly from similar items in the body of your thesis. In general, format the appendices according to the re-quirements of the stylebook for your professional field.Note: All items (i.e., text, charts, graphs, tables, etc.) in the appen- dices must use the same font and font size as the text of the thesis. Text should be double-spaced. Ex- ceptions to this rule may be made as indicated under the appropriate section in the University Thesis
Writing Guide. For example, see "Requirements for Charts, Figures, Graphs, Tables, etc." for exceptions allowed in presenting tables. In addition, sample surveys, letters,questionnaires, etc. can be used in their original form.If the appendix includes charts/ graphs or other illustrations, they must be generally consistent with each other in style and presenta- tion.Begin numbering the appendices with the number which follows the last page of the previous section. If you are using items in their original form, these must be reduced to fit within the prescribed margins. You may choose to have a copy centerreduce these for you. Also if you are using items in their original form, white-out old page numbers andrecopy the item.
	
Make sure the typist has a copy of these instructions.Students who choose to hire a typ- ist to prepare the manuscript must ensure that the typist has theseinstructions before beginning the job. (The University Thesis Writing Guide is available online at http:// www.csueastbay.edu/thesiswritingguide.)Agree on all details before work begins.Neither the university nor any of its offices or departments is responsi- ble for matters concerning stu- dents' relationships or agreements with any outside agency or individ- ual; therefore, neither the Universi- ty nor any of its units will take part in disagreements between student and typist concerning services of- fered or expected (including costs billed or paid). It is wise for you and the typist to agree on all details,preferably in writing, before the work is begun. Such agreementsinclude the typist's estimate of cost (based on information from you) and an estimate of time needed to complete the typing, as well as an understanding of responsibility for any required retyping. You are ad-vised to examine the first few typed pages to make certain the typist uses proper format and produces professional copy. Do not wait until the job is finished to determinecompliance with standards and requirements.Allow time to complete each step involved in producing your the- sis.Allow time for your draft prepara- tion. A good typist types about eight pages an hour. Generally, only the most competent, professional typist is able to spend more than fourhours a day on a thesis. Also allow time for proofreading, for consider- ation by your University Thesis
Committee (a week or more), for making the inevitable corrections or additions, and for obtaining the signatures on the approval page of all your committee members—all before the format review deadline.Finding a typist.Typists sometimes advertise in the Cal State East Bay Pioneer newspa- per, or they may post notices of their services on bulletin boardsaround campus. Typists who spe- cialize in theses also advertise in the yellow pages under "Word- processing Services."
	
Submit Your Final CopyAt the first due date, you must submit your APPROVED FINAL COPY of your University Thesis to the Thesis Editor in the Office of Aca- demic Programs and Graduate Studies for format review. Students may turn in their thesis to Student Services and AdministrationBuilding, Room 4500. (Do not have your committee members sign the approval page until the Thesis Editor has completed the format review.) Your thesis must be typed according to theformat requirements in the University Thesis Writing Guide. It must also contain all mandatory sections, with optional sections included if appropriate. The thesis will be proofread for adherence to the re- quired format and returned to you for corrections.Revised/Multiple CopiesAt the second due date, you must submit your revised/multiple cop- ies, order the number of copies to be bound, and pay binding fees. After the multiple copies have been submitted and the binding fees paid, the graduation evaluators in Enrollment Services will be noti- fied that the thesis has been accepted.   You must meet both the "Format Review" deadline and the "Copies Due" deadline. These are firm deadlines.Please see the thesis deadlines website for dates to submit your the- sis for format review and to submit your revised, multiple copies:www.csueastbay.edu/thesiswritingguide
Changes in this version of the University Thesis Writing Guide include changes in procedures and format requirements. Students and faculty advisors should refer to these guidelines, rather than previously com- pleted theses.The Thesis Editor currently offers a Universi- ty Thesis Formatting Workshop each quarter at the Student Center for Academic Achieve- ment. This workshop is free and open to all grad students and advisers. Please contact the Office of Academic Programs and Gradu- ate Studies at 510-885-3716 for the day and time.Use the templates in the University Thesis Writing Guide as tools to help you determine whether your title page and approval page have been formatted correctly. Create atyped version using your word-processing program and following the instructions on the template. Insert the same number of blank lines as indicated on the templates.Hold your typed title or approval page up to the light along with a copy of the appropriate template to check alignment of all elements. Adjust the elements on your typed page to match the positions of the corresponding elements on the template.Note: Alignment of the elements on your typed pages will vary slightly dependingupon the font, word-processing program and printer you are using. Minor variations are acceptable.
THESIS TITLE (ALL CAPS) 1CONTINUATION OF TWO-LINE TITLE (No more than 85 spaces) 123 	4	 1234A University Thesis Presented to the Faculty 1of 1California State University, East Bay 123 	4	 1234In Partial Fulfillment 1of the Requirements for the Degree 1Master of Science in Counseling (Name of Degree) 123 	4	 1234By 1Author’s Full Name 1September, 2011 (the end of quarter month/year your degree awarded)* Numbers indicate vertical spacing only; do not type. The three underlines are each 1?” long. Double-space text and center be- tween margins (1? left, 1” right). This template was prepared using Times New Roman and Microsoft Word. When lining up,
234THESIS TITLE (ALL CAPS) 1CONTINUATION OF TWO-LINE TITLE (No more than 85 spaces) 1234567891011By 1Author’s Full Name 12345678Approved:	Date:1	12	2 	3		3Committee Member’s Name Typed Here	12	2Committee Member’s Name Typed Here	12	2Committee Member’s Name Typed Here* Numbers indicate vertical spacing only; do not type. Double-space text and center between margins (1?” left, 1” right). “Signature” lines should be 2?” in length. “Date” lines should begin 5?” from left edge (“0”) of page and should be 2” in length. If your department only requires two signatures, type only two sets of lines. This template was prepared using Times Roman and Mi- crosoft Word (Center proper Roman numeral page number in same place as the Roman numerals on other pages). When lining up,
1234DISSERTATION TITLE (ALL CAPS) 1CONTINUATION OF TWO-LINE TITLE (No more than 85 spaces) 12345678       By Author's Full NameB.A. (Full name of school) yearM.A. (Full name of school) year 12345678A Dissertation 1Submitted in Partial Fulfillment of the Requirements for the Degree 1Doctorate in Education 123Doctoral Program in Educational Leadership for Social Justice 1California State University, East Bay 1September, 2011*** Numbers indicate vertical spacing only; do not type. The three underlines are each 1?” long. Double-space text and center be- tween margins (1? left, 1” right). This template was prepared using Times New Roman and Microsoft Word. When lining up, template may not match exactly.**Use the end of quarter month/year your degree is awarded for the date.
1234California State University, East BayDoctoral Program in Educational Leadership for Social Justice 1234This dissertation was presented by1234Author's Full Name 1234It was defended on Month date, year and approved by: 123Chairperson’s name, ChairDepartment affiliation 123Committee member nameDepartment affiliation 123Committee member nameDepartment affiliation